Come back in this video we're going to check out the NOT operator.
And we will see multiple versions of it.
So let's create a not age creator equal 30.
So you can go ahead and do it like that.
You can just say OK executed and just run it.
And as you can see it's executed because the age is not greater equal 30.
But of course this is not very efficient because first Python checks this code here and then it negates
it and then it checks whether that the whole statement is true.
So you could of course do a lot a lot faster but just saying if age lower 30 or less than 30 and then
just print the same thing here executed as you can see both are executed.
So this if statement would be a lot more efficient than that one.
Not just in tabs in terms of typing but also in terms of processing power and speed.
So you can use the not operator it just negates the whole thing.
And in this case it really doesn't make that much sense.
But I wanted to show you that it's possible.
Then there are cases where it actually makes a lot more sense.
And that's if we say have a little list with Macs and Nadine and now I want to check if Maurits or let's
say Moe is not in names.
So what I'm checking now is Moe not part of the names list.
And if that's true then let's just say something like Moe is not in the list so let's print that.
And as you can see or executed you can see what was not in the list.
Now we can of course do the same thing and a different approach where we can just say if not mo in names
and we can print them again.
Same thing.
Moe is not in the list.
And as you can see it's executed as well.
So both versions are fine but not in this version here is nicer where is prettier to look at and also
easier to to guess what's going on or to understand what's going on because here we see it is not.
And then we see this in nature.
So here we see both in one line and it's easier to read is more.
Not in the list names.
And if that is true then please print that statement.
And here we say if not Mo is in names so everyone else but more in names pretty much then print the
statement as well.
It's the same thing as this one here but it's as I said not that easy to read and not that well written
I'd say so highly preferred is this version here.
So the only thing that you really need is NOT operator for is really true to just quickly negate whatever
you're checking.
So of course you could have gone ahead and done something like if Moe
in names then print something.
Moe is a name is always there and else
print most.
Not in the list.
Of course he could have gone ahead like this.
But if you just want to check if somebody is not in their job to just check the negated version first
then this statement is going to be better.
And by way that something that I haven't covered yet and I will look into even closer when we go to
the live.
But whenever you have this if statement and the if statement is true the whole else statement will never
be checked so it won't even be thought about.
So the code will just go order the cursor will go here if no names.
If that statement is true then it will go here.
And then it will straight away jump to the line here.
So to this line where I'm out with my cursor right now with my mouse so I'll just skip the whole thing.
All right.
And that will make a lot more sense as soon as we get to live.
So see you in the next video where we have a little quiz or actually a little sheet followed followed
by a question of course the answers to the quiz.
So have fun doing that.
And see you there.